---
source_url: "https://docs.vulkan.org/spec/latest/index.html"
type: webpage
title: "Vulkan Documentation :: Vulkan Documentation Project"
captured_at: 2026-06-29T14:56:35.823651+00:00
contributor: "user"
---

# Vulkan Documentation :: Vulkan Documentation Project

Source: https://docs.vulkan.org/spec/latest/index.html

---

Vulkan Documentation :: Vulkan Documentation Project In this component Home --> Specs Vulkan API GLSL HLSL Slang Education Vulkan Reference Pages Vulkan Feature Descriptions Vulkan Guide Vulkan Samples Vulkan Tutorial GLSL Extensions YouTube More Info at Vulkan.org Feedback Report a Problem Community Vulkan Discord Reddit Stack Overflow Mastodon Vulkan Specification Preamble Introduction Fundamentals Initialization Devices and Queues Command Buffers Synchronization and Cache Control Render Pass Shaders Pipelines Memory Allocation Resource Creation Images Samplers Resource Descriptors Descriptor Heaps Descriptor Sets Descriptor Buffers Shader Interfaces Sampling Fragment Density Map Operations Tensor Operations Queries GPU Performance API Interface Clear Commands Copy Commands Drawing Commands Fixed-Function Vertex Processing Tessellation Geometry Shading Mesh Shading Cluster Culling Shading Fixed-Function Vertex Post-Processing Rasterization Fragment Operations The Framebuffer Dispatching Commands Device-Generated Commands Sparse Resources Window System Integration (WSI) Deferred Host Operations Private Data Acceleration Structures Compressed triangle data Micromap Ray Traversal Ray Tracing Memory Decompression Video Coding Optical Flow Execution Graphs External Compute Queues Data graphs Extending Vulkan Features Limits Formats Additional Capabilities Debugging Vulkan Environment for SPIR-V Memory Model Compressed Image Formats Core Revisions (Informative) Layers &amp; Extensions (Informative) Vulkan Roadmap Milestones Legacy and Superseded Functionality API Boilerplate Invariance Lexicon Credits (Informative) Vulkan Specification latest Khronos Vulkan Tutorial latest OpenGL Shading Language Extensions latest OpenGL Shading Language Specification latest Vulkan API Reference Pages latest Vulkan Feature Descriptions latest Vulkan Guide latest Vulkan Samples latest Vulkan Specification latest Vulkan Specification Vulkan Documentation Vulkan Documentation About Welcome to the official Documentation site for the cross-platform Vulkan graphics and compute API. This is your starting point for all things related to Vulkan . This site gathers together several key Vulkan documents into a convenient single site.This allows searching and cross-linking across documents, to help navigate quickly to the information you need for developing Vulkan-based applications. This build of the site includes the Vulkan 1.4.355 API specification (with all registered extensions), generated on 2026-06-26 03:20:31Z from git branch: main commit: 8bd7db8d668381b529b3a2065e65aacdcd244ee2. How to Navigate This Site The site is organized into &#8220;components&#8221;. The left navigation sidebar links to pages in the current component. The bottom-left button switches between components. The top navigation also has links to all components and related external documentation. It also allows for searching within this site. If the &#8220;In this component&#8221; box is checked, search will be restricted to the current component. Otherwise, all components of the site are searched. On pages with multiple sections, a right navigation sidebar links to sections in the current page. What is Included Vulkan Specification The Vulkan specification describes the Vulkan Application Programming Interface (API). Vulkan is a C99 API designed for explicit control of low-level graphics and compute functionality. The specification is aimed at implementors of Vulkan and at developers that already know the basics of Vulkan and want to read up on more advanced topics. Vulkan Feature Descriptions The Vulkan feature descriptions include extension documents that are written outlining the proposed API for new extensions. They are the base for the final extension specification and contain supplementary documentation. It is closely related to the Vulkan specification and can help to understand why an extension or a feature has been implemented in a given way. Vulkan Guide The Vulkan Guide is designed to help developers get up and going with the world of Vulkan. It is aimed to be a light read that leads to many other useful links depending on what a developer is looking for. All information is intended to help better fill the gaps about the many nuances of the Vulkan ecosystem including peripheral topics like shading languages. The Guide is a good starting point for first time Vulkan developers. Vulkan Samples The Vulkan Samples are a collection of resources to help you develop optimized Vulkan applications. These C++ samples demonstrate a wide range of Vulkan&#8217;s functionality. From writing a first "Hello triangle" sample to rendering complex scenes, doing GPU based work and using hardware accelerated ray tracing, these samples are trying to help developers learn how to use Vulkan. Vulkan Tutorial The Vulkan tutorial will teach you the basics of using Vulkan. It will help you get started with the API and teaches you how to get your first graphics and compute programs up and running using the C++ programming language. The Tutorial is aimed at people starting with Vulkan. If you are new to Vulkan, this should be your starting point. GLSL Specification Although Vulkan consumes shaders in SPIR-V, one of the most widely used shading languages is GLSL . This part of the documentation site contains the GLSL shading language specification with Vulkan specific extensions. How to get Started With Vulkan Requirements Vulkan is a available on a wide range of platforms . To develop with it, you first need an implementation that supports Vulkan. Most systems nowadays support Vulkan out of the box, as support ships via graphics cards drivers. For actually writing code that uses Vulkan, you need bindings for your programming language like the C bindings (that also work with C++) or the C&#43;&#43; bindings that offers a C&#43;&#43; based interface to the API. Vulkan SDK While not a requirement for developing Vulkan application, the LunarG Vulkan SDK is a convenient package of components and tools to help with developing Vulkan applications. Using the SDK is recommended. First Vulkan Program The Vulkan SDK contains C and C&#43;&#43; project templates for Microsoft Visual Studio that can be used as a starting point for writing Vulkan programs. Another option is to follow the development environment chapter of the The Vulkan tutorial which has instructions for different platforms. As a third option, the The Vulkan Samples come with build system that supports different platforms and C++ based development environments. Getting Help The Vulkan communities are there to help with all questions regarding the Vulkan ecosystem. Official channels include Discord , Reddit and a Vulkan forum . Feedback If you need to report a problem or want to build the site yourself, start with the Vulkan-Site repository on GitHub. This site is generated using the Antora static site generator.
